Welcome! Here's a preview of what we'll discover in this month's program. Have
you ever wanted to turn back time and undo something you wish you hadn't done?
In this month's My Teen Life, we'll hear how T'Lilla and Jose, who would help
from their parents and Jehovah, made progress after a setback. If we've
strayed far from Jehovah, our own heart may make us feel like we could never
come back. This month's music video will remind us how great Jehovah's love is
for those who want to return to help. If a brother once served as an elder but is
not presently, what can help him to regain his privileges? We'll hear the
experiences of two brothers in a segment with this thought-provoking title,
return and serve again. There's much to look forward to and this March 2023
edition of J.W. Broadcasting. Have you ever set a goal for yourself that was
harder to reach than your first thought? How did that make you feel? And this
dramatization, note the adjustments a sister makes to work toward her goal.
How is Charable? I could have answered that better. No, you did great, really.
I've always been hard on myself. We need strength in our faith. Then have we, um,
um, no, that's all. Sometimes it made me so anxious that even the normal stuff I do
felt impossible. So what do you think brings this out? I don't know maybe,
maybe lately it's because I'm thinking about Escai. If I can reach that goal, it'll be fine.
I see. How about we read a scripture that might help? They didn't discourage me from Escai,
but they suggested I tried to manage the anxiety first. I always on it. If I focused in my
goal and took care of myself, I'll get there. Maybe it was a little too much focus.
Thank you, brothers. So in the right, Escai would be a lot for me right now.
Sorry. But you get there. I tried everything to fix this. What's wrong with me?
Nothing. Something's just take time. Hey, I have Lily studied tomorrow morning.
I could use your help. I want to get baptized. But I don't know. You all do so much.
I don't think I could ever really be. I think I understand. Can I show you something?
Micah 68, what do you read that? He has told you, oh man, what is good and what is Jehovah requiring of you
only to exercise justice, to cherish loyalty and to walk in modesty with your God.
That last part, walk in modesty. That's about knowing our limitations.
So, is Jehovah happy with what you can do or does he want what you can to do?
He only expects what I can do. Then why should we expect more?
Turns out, I gave Lily the same advice that brothers gave me.
It was my turn to apply it. I had to be honest with myself. My limitation was my own high
expectations. I've been doing it so long that there was no quick fix. It didn't mean giving up on my
goals though. I just tried to focus more on what I could do in the present, like having more empathy
for people who feel like I do and showing them how much Jehovah values them. We could tell about
the student how we overcame a challenge.
True this, I can actually do a lot for Jehovah with the reasonable expectations.
Our sister learned to manage her anxiety in part by managing her expectations,
a crucial step to giving her best to Jehovah. That lesson is an excellent introduction to this
month's theme, realistic expectations, the key to joyful and successful service. When you hear
the word realistic, what comes to your mind? Realistic conveys the idea of something that is practical,
rational, reasonable, and sensible. Having expectations that are realistic is essential to
joy and success in Jehovah's service. In contrast, unrealistic expectations cause discouragement
as Proverbs 13-12 says, expectation postponed makes the heart sick, but a desire realized is a
tree of life. Appropriately, we often use this verse when referring to expectations that are not
achieved as quickly as we would like. However, expectations that are too high can also make our
heart sick. Notice this quote from the August 8, 1983 issue of a wake. Disappointment is often
not so much a matter of expectation postponed, as expectations too high. Now at times it is good to
have high goals to aim for the stars, but always expecting to come out on top is a surefire way
to beckon disappointment. To avoid disappointment, our expectation should be reasonable and sensible.
In our discussion, we're going to answer the following three questions about our expectations.
Number one, why must we be realistic about what we expect from ourselves?
Number two, why must we be realistic and what we expect from our brothers and sisters?
And number three, why is it realistic to expect that Jehovah will reward us for our faithful sacred
service? Our first question is, why must we be realistic about what we expect from ourselves?
Of course, we love Jehovah with our whole heart, mind and soul, and we want to do everything for
his glory. However, the reality is that no matter how much we love Jehovah and want to obey him,
we are sinful descendants of Adam. As a result, we occasionally transgress and thought word
indeed. Ecclesiastes 7.20 states, for there is no righteous man on earth who always does good
and never sins. And James 3.2 reads, for we all stumble many times. If anyone does not stumble in
word, he is a perfect man. Perhaps you can relate to the feelings of the Apostle Paul at Romans chapter
7, verses 18-20. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, there dwells nothing good,
where I have the desire to do what is fine, but not the ability to carry it out.
For I do not do the good that I wish, but the bad that I do not wish is what I practice.
If then, I do what I do not wish, I am no longer the one carrying it out,
but it is the sin dwelling in me. Paul struggled with his sinful flesh, made him feel miserable.
At times, we too might feel dejected, disappointed, and frustrated over our shortcomings.
We may begin to feel like a failure. What enabled Paul to continue serving Jehovah with joy and zeal?
He honestly acknowledged his sinful condition and had complete confidence in the ransom sacrifice
of Jesus Christ. Paul went on to say at Romans 7, 24 and 25,
miserable man that I am. Who will rescue me from the body undergoing this death?
Thanks to God through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Yes, through Jehovah's undeserved kindness and his
loving provision of the ransom, we can confidently remain in Jehovah's love and render worship
that is acceptable to him, even in our imperfect state. How powerful is the ransom in allowing us
to have a clean conscience and retain Jehovah's approval? Acts chapter 3 verse 19 answers this
question. Repet therefore, and turn around so as to get your sins blotted out,
so that seasons of refreshing may come from Jehovah himself. The original language word translated
blotted out means to cause to disappear by wiping, to remove so as to leave no trace.
Jehovah completely wipes out our sin.
Till a straight. Imagine a white riding surface representing our clean standing before Jehovah.
Now, imagine that red dots are drawn on it representing our sins. We should not view the ransom as
if Jehovah draws an X over each dot to cross them out. Those red dots would still be visible.
Rather, we should imagine Jehovah based on the ransom completely erasing the red dots
so that a clean white riding surface is restored. Jehovah further reassures us of the completeness
of his forgiveness with the words recorded at Psalm 103 verses 12 through 14.
Jehovah remembers that we are dust and does not expect perfection from us.
As a merciful Father, he puts our sins as far off as the sunrise is from the sunset.
Even if a servant of Jehovah commits a serious sin, if he is truly repentant with godly sadness,
his sin can be blotted out completely forgiven. Therefore, it is essential for us to maintain a
reasonable, sensible, realistic view of our imperfect state. We're going to make mistakes,
but we must have full trust in the reality of Jehovah's forgiveness based on the ransom.
Also, we can learn valuable lessons from our errors so that we'll be less likely to repeat them.
We need patience, though, because some personality flaws and bad habits may not go away overnight.
Some of them may even be a lifelong battle. At times, we may need counsel and discipline.
What should we realistically expect when receiving discipline?
Hebrews 12, 11 through 13, makes it clear that initially it will not be joyous.
It is painful. However, when we humbly accept discipline and apply the counsel,
we can be sure that we will gain inner peace and be a better servant of Jehovah.
Therefore, do not give up, but keep making progress.
Never allow the devil to convince you that you are a failure.
As stated in the September 1, 2001 issue of the Watchtower on page 18,
Satan would like nothing better than to rob you of your peace. He would surely like you to feel
that your imperfection makes your service unacceptable to God.
Never allow the devil to demoralize you. Our second question for consideration is,
why must we be realistic and what we expect from our brothers and sisters?
Just as it's essential to avoid having expectations that are too high for ourselves,
we must also avoid expecting too much from our brothers and sisters.
Such unreasonable expectations create stress, disappointment, and frustration.
The awake of September 8, 1994 quoted a factory supervisor who said,
you have to accept people as they are. If you expect more than they can give,
you will elevate the stress level, making everyone unhappy.
We should expect from our fellow workers what Jehovah and Jesus expect from them.
Jesus' illustration of the talents recorded in Matthew chapter 25 conveys their thinking.
The main point of this illustration is that the master Jesus expects each of his anointed brothers,
the slaves, and by extension those who are of the other sheep,
to do his or her best in the assigned work of preaching the good news.
How did Jesus distribute the work? Matthew chapter 25 verse 15 provides the answer.
He gave five talents to one, two to another, and one to still another,
to each according to his own ability, and he went abroad.
Jehovah and Jesus are pleased with, and will reward each of us when we do our best within
our circumstances and ability. When the slave of two talents gained two more,
the master did not say to him, why did you not gain five more like your fellow slave?
He gave the two talent slave the same commendation as the one who was given the five and gained five more.
Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful over a few things. I will appoint you over
many things. Enter into the joy of your master. As a result, the two talent slave could be just
as successful and joyful as the five talents lay. They both met their master's reasonable
expectations, and their master was joyful too. What a fine lesson for all of us,
including those serving as elders. In imitation of Jehovah and Jesus, we should never put pressure
on our brothers to do more than they're capable of doing. Failure to take this reasonable and
realistic approach can result in much frustration. Another way that we show we have reasonable
expectations is to acknowledge that from time to time disagreements and hurt feelings will arise
among our brothers. Have you ever heard someone say, I expect to be treated that way by the world,
but not by my brother? Is it reasonable to expect that there will not be any difficulties
among brothers? No. Does Jesus expect that at times his disciples will have difficulties
among themselves? Yes. Why can we say this? Remember some of the expressions Jesus used throughout
the sermon on the mount. Happy are the peacemakers since they will be called sons of God.
If you're bringing your gift to the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something
against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar and go away. First, make your peace with
your brother and then come back and offer your gift. Forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven
our debtors. Stop judging that you may not be judged. These verses show that Jesus knew his
disciples would have challenges among themselves. That was a realistic expectation, but it's also
reasonable to conclude that these problems can be successfully resolved if godly principles
are applied. Then peace can be restored. Additionally, we should expect some tensions to arise
among the brotherhood today. But by applying Bible principles, peace can be restored and maintained.
We'll now consider our third question. Why is it realistic to expect that Jehovah will reward
us for our faithful sacred service? At Hebrews 116, the Bible tells us that Jehovah is the
rewarder of those earnestly seeking him. And at 1 Corinthians 1558, the Apostle Paul encourages us to
have plenty to do in the work of the Lord knowing that your labor is not in vain. Paul was absolutely
sure of his heavenly reward. Despite his sins prior to becoming a Christian and his battles with
sinful inclinations, please note his confidence expressed at 2 Timothy chapter 4 verses 7 and 8.
I have fought the fine fight. I have run the race to the finish. I have observed the faith.
From this time on, there is reserve for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the
righteous judge, will give me as a reward in that day, yet not to me only, but also to all those
who have loved his manifestation. We can have similar confidence and the reward Jehovah has promised.
Whether our hope is heavenly or to enjoy everlasting life on a paradise earth,
this is a realistic expectation because our reasonable and loving God has promised it,
and he does not lie. Therefore, may we develop and maintain realistic expectations for ourselves
and for our fellow workers. May we never lose sight of the reality that Jehovah will reward those
earnestly seeking Him. If we have realistic expectations, we can find joy and success in our
service to Jehovah now, as well as have the prospect of doing so forever, young ones. No doubt you
have many expectations for the life that lays ahead of you. Be assured that Jehovah wants the best
for you and will give you Holy Spirit and the direction you need to make good choices.
But what can you do if you make a decision that in the end disappoints you or those who love you?
Let's watch the next episode of My Teen Life. How can I fix my mistakes?
I started to make a lot of friends at school and aside from school, I began learning how to
roll a blade. So whenever I'd go out to practice, I'd meet lots of different people.
I made some mistakes because of bad associations. We started going out at night and maybe just
drinking a little alcohol, but eventually we were drinking a lot. By the time I realized what was
happening, I was already really involved. I was 17 years old. I started being close friends with
them. They were everything to me and I really trusted them. They were doing some wrong things like
drugs and using bad language, but I thought I'm just with them, as long as I don't do what they're
doing. It's not a problem. I began to make excuses saying that it didn't really matter and
that there wasn't anything wrong with what I was doing. My spiritual routine was just going to the
meetings. I started missing some meetings. I never prayed. I didn't even know how to do personal
study. I wasn't reading the Bible every day. In this group of friends, there was a boy who liked
me and asked me out. And since all my friends were dating, I thought, why not? So I started dating him
and my parents had no idea. I'd lie about where I was going, what I'd be doing, and who I'd be with.
I was pretty much two completely different people. At home, I was one way and with my friends, I was
another. I tried to pray to Jehovah, but I just couldn't. I felt ashamed because I knew inside
that Jehovah wasn't happy with what I was doing. My conscience really bothered me. There was
a moment when my boyfriend and then some of those friends really let me down. I began thinking about
how I didn't have anyone else in my life. One time we were all drinking and this girl invited
us all to go to our house. I started thinking about what might happen if I said yes to that girl's
invitation. I knew that there'd be drinking, drugs, and maybe even something a moral might happen.
So after having not prayed for a really long time, I closed my eyes and said, Jehovah, please help me.
I'm just so alone, I don't have anyone. I felt completely abandoned by everyone.
So right then and there, I said I prayed to Jehovah asking him that if he would help me to say no,
from that day forward, I would stop associating with those friends and serve him whole-sold.
Many times, I asked Jehovah to forgive me. I said, Jehovah, you're the only one I have.
Please help me. And that's exactly what happened. After saying that prayer, I felt determined to leave.
I started thinking about everything that I'd done and how I was putting not only my own life at risk,
but also my relationship with Jehovah. I thought I'm going to talk to the elders.
Since I'm a very shy person, the thought of confessing my mistakes was really difficult.
I talked to them and I told them everything that happened. It was like a weight had been lifted off me.
I saw that I really wasn't alone after all. I still remember a scripture that they read to me
at Psalm 86.5, which showed me that Jehovah's forgiveness has no limits if I'm truly repentant.
So I knew that Jehovah would forgive me, but the elders also told me that I'd have to tell my parents,
which was very difficult. But I thought, well, I need to speak up and I just opened up
and told them about what happened. I decided that I was going to talk with an elder,
and he read a scripture with me from Philippians 4.7, which says that the peace of God that surpasses
all understanding will guard our hearts. So I was able to pray again, knowing that if I really
changed, I could feel that peace that comes from Jehovah. I started studying the Bible for you.
I stopped associating with those friends and started being more involved in spiritual things.
I had the privilege of getting baptized and becoming a regular pioneer, and today I'm serving in
Bethel. I had the privilege of being invited to help with construction projects, but my greatest
privilege is the strong friendship that I have with Jehovah and also having true friends.
I've seen that Jehovah has always been by my side, and even when I didn't want to be with him,
Jehovah never abandoned me. Isn't it encouraging to see how Jehovah gives us just what we need to get
back up if we stumble? Our loving father is indeed ready to forgive. Our music video this month
reminds us of Jehovah's loving concern for those who suffer a spiritual fall.
Provide, get back up when you're down. You can turn this around, get back up, stand up tall,
you can learn, just reach out, take his hand, he'll raise you up, make you stand, and one thing
that's for sure, you'll be stronger than before. You learn from a fall, the dawn is breaking,
and your heart but you can't go back in time, you have to see it through. Stop and think it over,
and take it to Jehovah, his word is there to guide you, to pick you up and show you what to do.
Back up, you can turn this around, get back up, stand up tall, take his hand, he'll raise you up,
make you stand, and one thing is love is greeders. That music video beautifully illustrates a point
from our discussion. We can recover from a fall with Jehovah, that's always a reasonable expectation.
More than 20 years ago, a Wake magazine published the life story of Alina Jitnikova.
Alina realized that pleasing Jehovah would mean rejection by this world.
But in the following episode of Where Are They Now, know what she describes as perhaps an even
bigger test. My name is Alina Jitnikova, and I was born into a family of a zealous
communist. We believed that a world was coming where people would have everything they needed,
they'd be happy, there would be peace worldwide, and I deeply believed it. But I found paradise
among God's people. As I grew up, I realized that communism had its deficits,
because I saw its hypocrisy. People didn't practice what they preached. In high school,
I'm a friend who started talking about God and the Bible. So the fact that God's name is Jehovah,
that something called God's Kingdom and Armageddon will come, these were all new concepts for me.
I'd never heard of these things before. I'd never even held a Bible in my hand.
A Bible study gradually helped me gain faith. In 1983, I was baptized in a bathtub.
At that time, Jehovah's Witnesses were under ban. In 1989, the Velvet Revolution took place in
Czechoslovakia, that also meant a change for Jehovah's Witnesses, because we could begin to express
our faith publicly. The house to house ministry started, and it was something amazing and new for me.
I got to know Petr in our local congregation, and we got married in 1990.
We entered into a full-time service, two years after the wedding. We first started serving as
regular pioneers, and two years later, we were invited to Bethel. Those were years full of joy,
full of hard work, which greatly enriched me. We left Bethel eight years later,
and I found that people had changed, and it was a challenge for us.
Because now people have become more materialistic. When I learned the truth, it seemed to me that
Armageddon was at the door, that it would come soon. And the world helped us in a way,
because it didn't want us, it didn't want Jehovah's Witnesses. But today's world, with its freedom,
doesn't tell us that it doesn't want us. In fact, it wants us. It wants our time.
It wants our attention. And therefore, there may be a great danger. We could feel that Armageddon
is delaying, so we might feel the need to fulfill our dreams already today. Jehovah teaches me to be
patient. Jehovah is a happy God. And even when he waits, he does not wait idly. Jehovah is hard
working. He's always doing something. When you feel the waiting with activity, time goes faster.
The field ministry is very important to me. Sometimes it costs a little effort,
but my service partners are always a great encouragement to me. With Jehovah's help,
we have nice conversations in service. And even today, we find people who think about the meaning
of life. Service does not only consist of house to house service. Service is the whole Christian
way of life, including caring for brothers and sisters. I think serving my brothers and sisters
requires us to set aside time for them. In this way, I can promote a good atmosphere in the congregation.
To be in the spiritual paradise, I must contribute something. As a result, the spiritual
paradise will be bigger, deeper and more beautiful. When we do something for others,
we don't think too much about ourselves, our pain. And I think life in Jehovah's service
is sometimes challenging, but the result is happiness. And already today, I can say that my dream
of a happy life has come true. We're encouraged to see Sister Alana Jitnikova and her husband
Petter remain busy in kingdom service. How wonderful that this has helped them to have
realistic expectations and continue to remain joyful. In a world that wants our time and energy,
Alana maintains her focus by sharing her Christian hope, caring for her brothers and sisters,
and doing her all to encourage others. What if you want to encourage others? But you don't know what
to say. Notice the lessons we learned from the Apostle Paul's example, and this morning
worship presented by Brother David Schaeffer. If you have any word of encouragement,
tell it. Who said those words? How were what did the Apostle Paul say in response? How did his
audience react? And what can Paul's example teach us about encouragement? Let's open our
Bibles to Acts chapter 13. This is the account of Paul's first missionary tour. After a dangerous
journey of about 110 miles, Paul and his companions find themselves seated in a synagogue in Pesidian
Antioch. Verse 15 says, after the public reading of the law and the prophets, the presiding officers of
the synagogue sent word to them, saying, men, brothers, if you have any word of encouragement for
the people, tell it. Well, the next five paragraphs contain Paul's speech. How effective was it?
Verses 42 through 44 show the results. First, the people begged Paul to come back and give another
talk the next weekend. Second, many Jews and proselytes became believers. Third, the following
Sabbath, nearly all the city turned out to hear Paul's next talk. Impressive. We have to ask ourselves,
what did Paul say in those five paragraphs that was so persuasive? Well, one of the first things
we note is his introduction, Acts chapter 13 verse 17, the God of this people Israel chose
our forefathers. Now note that inclusive pronoun our, not your forefathers, not mine, our forefathers.
Did you realize that the last time that little word was used in the book of Acts was all the way back
in chapter 7 during Stephen's powerful speech. Stephen used the word our 10 times, usually in connection
with the word forefathers. Paul heard that speech back when he was Saul of Tarsus. And now more than
decade later, he himself uses the exact same expression for the same purpose to establish
common ground. Your ancestors are my ancestors. I am what you are. And that is the starting point
of true encouragement. The Watchtower article from which our text is taken says that the Greek word
usually translated encouragement literally means a calling to one side. And yes, it's related to
the Greek word for comfort, which has a similar connotation. So Paul began from their perspective.
I know where you're coming from. I grew up learning the same Holy writings as you. And then in
verses 17 through 31, he uses Jewish history and recent events to prove that Jesus was the Messiah
then and verses 32 through 37. He connects current events with fulfilled prophecy. Prophecy,
they knew we do that today. Don't we? We go to the door. We read Matthew 24, 7. We ask,
what do you think? Are the wars, famines, and earthquakes that we've seen in recent years the same
as ever or a distinct fulfillment of Bible prophecy? And what is the message that Jehovah is real,
that Jehovah is alive. His word is coming true. And yet Paul went further, didn't he? He didn't
stop there. In verse 33, Paul said, God has completely fulfilled it to us. Yes, this is personal.
Jehovah is at work in your life in my life. Then the big conclusion verses 38 through 41. In effect,
Jehovah did this for you. Don't miss out. You can succeed with Jehovah's help. That was Paul's
answer to a simple request for a word of encouragement. That's why Paul made disciples. And isn't that
how we're counseled to fulfill our student assignments today? To strengthen and encourage your audience,
we should show what Jehovah has done, what he is doing, and what he will yet do.
But Paul's speech was so persuasive that it also drew persecution, which followed him to the
next two cities. In Listera, his persecutors thought they had killed him. But Acts chapter 14
verses 20 and 21 says that on the next day, he left with Barnabas for Derby. After declaring the
good news to that city and making quite a few disciples, they faced a choice. You can see the choice
on map B13. We're looking at the red lines, indicating Paul's first missionary tour. Derby is the
last stop. But notice the next town over to the east, Tarsus. Sound familiar? Saul of Tarsus. There
was a passageway from Derby to Tarsus. Paul would have known the road. He used it on his second
missionary journey and his third missionary journey, but not this time. Acts 14, 21 and the red
arrows show that Paul returned to all three cities where he had been persecuted, including
Pasidia and Antioch, where he first received the request for a word of encouragement.
Why? Why return? It would have been so easy for him to think. You know, we've had a pretty good
run here. I helped the ruler of Cyprus into the truth. I performed my first miracle striking
elements blind. We started new congregations in Pasidia and Antioch, Iconium, Listera, Derby. I
endured all manner of hardships, was beaten up and stoned and left for dead successful missionary
tour, but I need to regroup. No? He didn't think that way. Why? Because the needs of the congregation
outweighed his own personal feelings or fears. Do you suppose that the opposers who stoned him
and left him for dead were any kinder to the new disciples in Listera? Besides, who was taking
the lead? Paul needed to appoint overseers. This was a weighty task, so back they went.
Likewise, today, our brothers are putting the needs of the disciples ahead of their own comforts.
Do you remember these scenes from Jehovah's Witnesses, Faith in Action, Part 2, Let the Light Shine?
Brother Pillar explains that when he refused to salute the flag in Windsboro, Texas, he was beaten up
and hanged. Thankfully, the rope broke and he survived to tell the story. What the video doesn't
tell us is that Oscar Pillars was a circuit overseer, so months later, guess where it was time for
him to return? Windsboro, Texas. Now, in the months since the hanging incident, the brothers hadn't
been preaching downtown. They were preaching in the rurals. And brother Pillar's reason that
if he didn't preach downtown, the brothers may never get the courage to preach there.
So he checked out all the territories within city limits. They worked there all morning,
had a beautiful time, no negative incident, except at the very last door. A woman said,
say, you're one of Jehovah's Witnesses, aren't you? He said, yes, ma'am, I am. She said, you know,
we hanged one of you people here. And we'll do it again. But he didn't tell her that he was the one
that they hanged. But what a beautiful example of standing with your brothers,
putting their needs ahead of your own feelings. And we have to say, this Bethel family is not
self-sparing when encouragement is needed. At times, though, it could be easy to think, well,
I just don't know what to say. But is saying something always necessary?
How do you suppose those enlistra felt just to see Paul again, knowing what it must have taken
for him emotionally, simply to return? That of itself spoke volumes. Okay, but I still feel like
I should say something. What did Paul say? Verse 22, we must enter into the kingdom of God through
many tribulations, the kingdom. Words of true encouragement always center on the kingdom,
not like Job's false confidors. Clearly, you have problems here. You must be doing something wrong.
No, rather, you're imitating Jesus. It brought the wrath of our enemy, well done. And that you're
willing to suffer proves that this is real. You will see Jehovah back you up now. You will see
him reward you in the future. Stick with it. Have you been called on to offer a word of encouragement?
Don't overthink it. Just go. Stand beside those who need you. And if you have any word
of encouragement for the people, tell it. Isn't it faith strengthening to consider both
first century and modern day examples of brothers who poured themselves out to encourage others?
Even in the face of grave danger, has a health condition caused you to pause and re-evaluate your
goals and expectations? Please consider the following interview that was presented to the United
States Bethel family. Well, we have many fine examples of those who have maintained their focus
during extreme life events. But consider the experience of Felix and Myra Tarazas and the following
pre-recorded interview. Well, it's a privilege to be with Felix and Myra Tarazas serving at
Wal-Kill. We understand it's been a very difficult year. Could you share some of the details of your
medical condition? Well, about a year and a half ago, I started developing an infrequent pain in
my chest, which led me to seeing several doctors. Soon thereafter, I was diagnosed with a malignant
tumor that was only going to be treatable by its complete removal. After the surgery, we were hoping
to hear good news moving forward. Then a few weeks later, one of my doctors conveyed to us some of
the most difficult words that one can imagine hearing, a life expectancy of just a few months.
Wow. That had to have been difficult to hear. How were you able to get your mind wrapped around that?
Well, as you can imagine, after many intense and tearful prayers asking Jehovah to give us
peace of mind, to give us a comb heart and wisdom to make a good decision,
we decided on a treatment to hospice care that would allow me to make the most of the time that I
had left and to be able to give my very best to Jehovah. That's remarkable Felix. And Myra,
you're such a supportive wife. How have you been able to be so positive? I have to say it's my
hope in Jehovah. That is what's helped me. At the moment, we're sharing in the sufferings,
mentioned the second Corinthians one seven. But the verse concludes we will also share in the comfort
and we are also experiencing that right now. I have no doubt I'll see Felix again at the
resurrection. When I look to the future, I can vividly picture us walking through the paradise
earth, enjoying Jehovah's beautiful creation. This is the life, the real life Jehovah promises.
And it's this hope that gives me joy and peace.
Beautifully expressed. Thank you. And Felix, how have you been able to be so joyful?
My relationship with Jehovah has never been stronger than it is right now.
And I believe it's this closeness and this intimacy with him that is providing me the joy
that I'm experiencing. Now, Philippians 4, 6 and 7 assures me that by prayer and by supplication
it says that the peace of God will guard your hearts. Prayer has been so indispensable in bringing
me peace during this process. And it's also amplified my appreciation for the resurrection,
like I have never experienced before. Proverbs 12, 25, I think perfectly illustrates our current
situation. There it says, anxiety in a man's heart can weigh it down. But a good word
says it cheers it up. Both myron and I and I have benefited from what we feel is an enormous
storehouse of good words received in the way of concern, of love and compassion from the
brotherhood. And lastly, my current circumstances have opened up such a wonderful opportunity
to share kingdom truths with family members, including the beautiful privilege of being able to
study the Bible with my mother during the past few months. Oh, amazing. Tell us, how is this experience
affected your faith and trust in Jehovah? Well, we have seen Jehovah's hand from the very beginning,
but one time sticks out in my mind. It was the day we received Felix's prognosis.
That evening, the Bethel family watched our study, considered the article,
keep calm and trust in Jehovah. And this was followed by a lecture entitled,
remain in Jehovah's everlasting arms. Jehovah provided us exactly what we needed to hear
that very day. We felt it was an answer to our prayers, as if to reassure us he has everything
under control. This has strengthened my faith in that Jehovah will continue to more than super
abundantly provide for us care and guidance as we face new challenges. And without a doubt,
fulfill his promises for the future. I think when you come to understand that you only have a
short time to live, you know, that's something that can very easily knock you right off of your feet.
But we know that we've been grasped by Jehovah's carrying hands right now. And that is what stabilized
us. You know, throughout this ordeal, we have seen Jehovah's love, his care and assistance in every
decision and every step that we've taken. From the first visits to the doctors, through surgery,
and into the most difficult part of the prognosis, we have lacked nothing.
I absolutely know that my faith has only been strengthened by the challenges of this trial.
So now, as I prepare to close my eyes and fall asleep for just a brief time,
it is a privilege for me to demonstrate to Jehovah my trust in all of his promises
and to maintain complete integrity right down to the end.
What an outstanding expression of faith. Thank you both so much for sharing those deeply personal
and motivating expressions. You are a living example of faith in action and we love you.
I can't tell you how many times I've seen that and it's so moving each time.
On June the 8th, 2021, our dear brother Felix went to sleep in death just seven weeks
after this interview. And any, frankly, that was around the trousers during this time. You would see
firsthand the power of faith and their focus and wanting to give Jehovah their absolute best.
It was true in this. At Myra, the dear Myra continues to show that same faith and endurance
even now. And Felix's mother, she's continued to progress spiritually. We understand that
Felix will be so happy to hear. For me personally, it's been hardwarming to see
in Myra's unshakable faith and the love and support she receives from the Bethel family.
Along with Myra, we long to see Felix again. Even in failing health, he used the strength he had
to build up those around him. Jehovah truly appreciates shepherds with the same self-sacrificing spirit.
Did you want serve as a congregation elder? Can you serve again?
No, the ways Jehovah assisted two brothers to overcome their feelings of disappointment
and qualify again to serve their brothers. I served as an elder until the end of 2014.
And that's when some problems came up and I ended up being disqualified.
I had already been serving as an elder for 92 years. But at the time, I felt that the
best thing to do would be to stop and give up my privilege of service so I could care for myself
emotionally. Before I lost my privilege, my qualifications were reviewed by the elders on three
separate occasions. And that ended up dampening my desire to want to serve again in the future.
I began thinking, published to receive the same reward as an elder. So why should I put myself
through that all over again? When you resign or are disqualified from serving as an elder,
you're not immune to feeling like you're a failure, feeling sad and especially feeling that you've
let your hover down. And it's a fight to remain active. One of the biggest things that helped me
during that phase was my wife's support. She believed in me and helped motivate me.
My wife was already a pioneer and she encouraged me to start pioneering too.
So within just a few months, I had already started serving as a pioneer.
It was in the ministry that I began to cultivate a desire to serve once again as an elder.
Getting involved in activities with a congregation, helping out with the cleaning.
Being with my wife in the preaching work, conducting Bible studies.
I had a lot of help from the brothers who cried with me when I needed to cry.
And who laughed with me when it was possible to laugh.
A mature elder helped me to see that I needed to leave the matter in Jehovah's hands.
That time period when I stopped serving as an elder,
I can say that that may have been when I prayed the most in all my life.
I still wasn't an elder but I felt at peace. I remembered first John 320 that Jehovah is
greater than our hearts and that he knew what I was going through. And just because I wasn't
serving any longer as an elder, that didn't make Jehovah love me any less. That helped me a lot.
The most difficult thing to overcome was really the resentment that I felt towards some brothers
who had participated in the whole process.
The scripture at Psalm 119, 165, helped me to see that when you're going through a difficult
situation, that's the time that you need to show that you love Jehovah. I could see that during
that time of my life, that's when I had the show that I really loved Jehovah. I would pray to Jehovah,
each and every day. And I would mention those brothers by name.
That helped me to start softening my heart to lesson and eventually to eliminate this resentment.
Trusting in Jehovah was so worth it. And I felt like it was a great act of love on his part
to allow me once again to serve as an elder. And if as if he told me, Marcelo,
I trusted you are going to do a good job as an elder.
We just have to trust in Jehovah. When I began to show more trust, that's when things started
happening in a way that I couldn't have imagined. In less than two years, I had already began serving
as an elder again. And in 2016, we received an invitation to serve at Bethel.
My wife and I have now been serving here at Bethel for a little more than 10 years.
When you accept the discipline, then you stop thinking about privileges and start thinking
more about the brothers and about being more involved in the ministry.
I still had the most important privilege. That of being one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Today we learn how important it is to have realistic and reasonable expectations.
Both of ourselves and of our brothers and sisters,
instead of being discouraged with what we cannot do, we rely on Jehovah and set goals according to
what we can do. My teen life in our music video reminded us that Jehovah will give us the help we
need to get back up if we suffer a spiritual setback. And in where are they now? We caught up with
sister Alana Jitnikova, who reminded us that serving our brothers and sisters can keep us focused
and joyful. We end this once program with our video postcard from our brothers and sisters in
Costa Rica. Costa Rica is a sparkling gem that sits on the so-called Ring of Fire, a chain
approximately 40,000 kilometers or 25,000 miles long that contains about three quarters of the earth's
volcanoes. Costa Rica has 61 volcanoes and six active ones. The weather and mountainous countryside
are ideal for growing delicious coffee. The name Costa Rica means rich coast in Spanish.
This is just a small sampling of all the different animal species here. And some are found nowhere else
on earth. With this country of more than five million inhabitants, both other riches that are
truly precious to Jehovah. Over 32,000 publishers of the good news live in Costa Rica and around
4,000 serve as regular pioneers. Their territory is vast and diverse. Even though Spanish is the
official language, there are groups and congregations in 10 languages. Let's go to the city of
Limn, established near where Christopher Columbus arrived around 1502. Here we find a Creole
language congregation in Costa Rica. Our brothers here love to participate in the ministry.
For example, they do phone and letter witnessing and they conduct around 65 Bible studies each month.
Creole speaking people have profound respect for God's word and love to learn about Jehovah.
The publishers make good use of the publications and videos available in the police
Creole language. Several of these brothers have helped with the translation and audio recording
of the Bible and other publications, videos and songs in police Creole. Our dear brothers and
sisters from Limn, Costa Rica, send their love and greetings to the worldwide brotherhood.
And we send all of you our love as well. From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.